---
slug: "/projects/mm18"
title: "Mechmania 2018"
start_date: "2018/1"
end_date: "2018/9"
role: "Visualizer Developer"
overview: "Mechmania is a hackathon at UIUC, during which competitors
submit bots to compete in a game on their behalf."
---

# About Mechmania

Mechmania is a hackathon at UIUC. It is hosted every year during sometime in
September, at the end of Reflection and Projection. During the event,
competitors submit bots to compete in a game on their behalf.

The development of the game typically starts a year in advance. Beginning in
Mechmania 2018, the development team was split into 3 groups:

- Game Engine: the game engine team developed the core logic of the game. The
  game engine would send game information to and accept response from players
  via IPC. After the game is finished, the game engine outputs a winner and a
  complete log of everything that happened during the game.
- Visualizer: the visualizer team developed a visualizer that takes in the log
  from game engine as input and play the game visually for competitors; I was
  part of the visualizer team;
- Infrastructure: the infrastructure team developed the web app that allows
  competitors to sign up, submit bots and view their scores in real time and a
  command line interface that allows competitors to test their bot locally;

## What I Did

I developed a change animation system that would

- Compute the difference between the current state of the game and the next
  state of the game;
- Dispatch and animate the changes to the affected game tokens;
- Move on to the next state when all changes are done applying;
- Repeat the above process till the game finishes;
- Most changes such as health and intended direction were very trivial to
  animate. All that needs to be done is to set a computed property of either a
  UI element or a property of "Monobehavior".

However, position animation reveals itself to be extremly challenging for the
following reasons.

- The distance the game tokens need to move varies greatly depending on their
  location on the map. So the animation system needs to wait for all location
  animations to finish, regardless of distance;
- The builtin navigation agent of Unity sometimes would like to take shortcuts
  that are not allowed in the game;

An ideal solution to the first problem was to set up trigger colliders around
each travelable locations and as the game tokens enter the triggers, a message
is sent to notify the animation system that a token has done animating. When all
tokens are done, the animation system would move onto the next state. But when I
prototyped this, I realized that for the locations that are very close to each
other, Unity's navigation agent may cause more colliders to trigger than
intended, resulting in the animation system moving on to the next state
prematurely. I didn't build a custom navigation algorithms at the time because

- we were very close to release date;
- the map was in hexagons and I was not familiar enough graphs to navigate
  through the hexagons;

So to solve the first issue, my initial solution was to check the distance
between the token and the target location and when the distance is below a
certain threshold, the animation system is notified that a token has done
animating. However, not everytime the threshold can be reached since Unity's
navigation agent stops at slightly different places depending where it travels
from and between some locations, the movement is trivial.

To fix this, I instead use a Timer on the position animation of the tokens. For
each turn, a different timer value would be computed depending on how far the
token needs to travel. The timer would start as soon as the token starts moving.
When the timer reaches 0, the animation system is notified that a single
location animatino is done.

To fix the second problem, I placed arrays of empty game objects on the map as
waypoints, between the very far away locations that the nav agent likes to
shortcut. When location animation occurs between those far away locations
occurs, rather than passing the target location to the nav agent, elements of
the array are passed to the nav agent to ensure that the correct path is taken.

## What I Learned

- Familiarize myself with Unity's built-in navigation system and its
  limitations;
- Familarize myself with C Sharp's "IEnumerable", "IEnumerator" and "yield",
  which were used in both the change detection mechanism and the timer;
- How to collaborate on a Unity project;
- Having an experience of catching up release date and come up with solutions
  that are not necessarily elegant, but meet the reqiurement on time;
