---
slug: "/projects/mm19"
title: "Mechmania 2019"
start_date: "2018/9"
end_date: "2019/9"
role: "Visualizer Developer"
overview: "Mechmania is a hackathon at UIUC, during which competitors
submit bots to compete in a game on their behalf."
---

In Mechmania 2019, the overall team configuration and architecture remains
unchagned from Mechmania 2018 and I still works on the visualizer.

# What I Did

In Mechmania 2018, we have some major user experience issues.

- The visualizer takes a very long time to start thanks to large log files
  dumped by the game engine (log files of even our test runs were around 50kb);
- The user cannot fast forward to a specific turn in the game;

My role in the project for now has been to reduce the time needed by the
visualizer to boot up. I have taken the following measures

- Write our dedicated json parser that is compatible with Unity's IL2CPP runtime
  (last year our json solution was implemented using C Sharp String's split
  method);
- Use parallel programming techniques to boost the time needed to parse the
  jsons and make the user interface responsive in the process.

There are mainly three reasons for implementing a custom json parser:

- The JSON parser from Nuget seems all to contain code that dynamically generate
  types, which is forbidden by Unity's IL2CPP runtime;
- If I need to parse a really large json object, having a custom parser allows
  me to not have to wait for the entire object to done parsing but to be able to
  display data as soon as they are available.
- Having a custom json parser may make it easier to address performance
  bottlenecks like Mechmania 2018;

My original visiion for the visualizer was to rather than having it parsing json
in the main thread which cause the app to freeze, we would parse json in worker
threads. However, as most of the team is not familiar with async programming in
C Sharp, I changed it to those who knew async programming will be making a
"startup page" where we parse json in worker threads while the startup page
display information on the competition and the current instance of the game.
After all jsons are parsed, the startup page will then present the main game.
This way, we make the visualizer feels responsive while parsing json, without
having to track down multi-threaded bugs. In addition, because our input json
file has game states serialized into json on separate lines, I was also able to
use "Parallel.ForEach" from C Sharp's standard library to cut down the total
time it takes to parse json.

## What I Learned

- How a parser works
- C Sharp features that are not available in IL2CPP
- Async programming in C Sharp
- Common bugs with async programming
